In supervised learning, each data point is labeled or associated with a category or value of interest. An example of a categorical label is assigning an image as either a ‘cat’ or a ‘dog’. An example of a value label is the sale price associated with a used car. The goal of supervised learning is to study many labeled examples like these, and then to be able to make predictions about future data points. For example, identifying new photos with the correct animal or assigning accurate sale prices to other used cars. This is a popular and useful type of machine learning.
In unsupervised learning, data points have no labels associated with them. Instead, the goal of an unsupervised learning algorithm is to organize the data in some way or to describe its structure. Unsupervised learning groups data into clusters, as K-means does, or finds different ways of looking at complex data so that it appears simpler.
In reinforcement learning, the algorithm gets to choose an action in response to each data point. It is a common approach in robotics, where the set of sensor readings at one point in time is a data point, and the algorithm must choose the robot’s next action. It's also a natural fit for Internet of Things applications. The learning algorithm also receives a reward signal a short time later, indicating how good the decision was. Based on this signal, the algorithm modifies its strategy in order to achieve the highest reward.
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that's based on artificial neural networks. The learning process is deep because the structure of artificial neural networks consists of multiple input, output, and hidden layers. Each layer contains units that transform the input data into information that the next layer can use for a certain predictive task. Thanks to this structure, a machine can learn through its own data processing.
Training deep learning models often requires large amounts of training data, high-end compute resources (GPU, TPU), and a longer training time. In scenarios when you don't have any of these available to you, you can shortcut the training process using a technique known as transfer learning.
Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence that uses techniques (such as deep learning) that enable machines to use experience to improve at tasks. The learning process is based on the following steps: 1 Feed data into an algorithm. Use this data to train a model. Test and deploy the model. Consume the deployed model to do an automated predictive task. (In other words, call and use the deployed model to receive the predictions returned by the model.)
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a technique that enables computers to mimic human intelligence. It includes machine learning.
Text analytics based on deep learning methods involves analyzing large quantities of text data (for example, medical documents or expenses receipts), recognizing patterns, and creating organized and concise information out of it.
Artificial neural networks are formed by layers of connected nodes. Deep learning models use neural networks that have a large number of layers.
The feedforward neural network is the most simple type of artificial neural network. In a feedforward network, information moves in only one direction from input layer to output layer. Feedforward neural networks transform an input by putting it through a series of hidden layers. Every layer is made up of a set of neurons, and each layer is fully connected to all neurons in the layer before. The last fully connected layer (the output layer) represents the generated predictions.
Recurrent neural networks are a widely used artificial neural network. These networks save the output of a layer and feed it back to the input layer to help predict the layer's outcome. Recurrent neural networks have great learning abilities. They're widely used for complex tasks such as time series forecasting, learning handwriting, and recognizing language.
A convolutional neural network is a particularly effective artificial neural network, and it presents a unique architecture. Layers are organized in three dimensions: width, height, and depth. The neurons in one layer connect not to all the neurons in the next layer, but only to a small region of the layer's neurons. The final output is reduced to a single vector of probability scores, organized along the depth dimension.
Generative adversarial networks are generative models trained to create realistic content such as images. It is made up of two networks known as generator and discriminator. Both networks are trained simultaneously. During training, the generator uses random noise to create new synthetic data that closely resembles real data. The discriminator takes the output from the generator as input and uses real data to determine whether the generated content is real or synthetic. Each network is competing with each other. The generator is trying to generate synthetic content that is indistinguishable from real content and the discriminator is trying to correctly classify inputs as real or synthetic. The output is then used to update the weights of both networks to help them better achieve their respective goals.
Transformers are a model architecture that is suited for solving problems containing sequences such as text or time-series data. They consist of encoder and decoder layers. The encoder takes an input and maps it to a numerical representation containing information such as context. The decoder uses information from the encoder to produce an output such as translated text. What makes transformers different from other architectures containing encoders and decoders are the attention sub-layers. Attention is the idea of focusing on specific parts of an input based on the importance of their context in relation to other inputs in a sequence. For example, when summarizing a news article, not all sentences are relevant to describe the main idea. By focusing on key words throughout the article, summarization can be done in a single sentence, the headline.
Automated machine learning, also referred to as automated ML or AutoML, is the process of automating the time-consuming, iterative tasks of machine learning model development. It allows data scientists, analysts, and developers to build ML models with high scale, efficiency, and productivity all while sustaining model quality.