BA Case Study

Analytics is a very hands-on subject. One needs to demonstrate various concepts learned in Business Analytics(i.e. from data collection and preprocessing to design, implementation and more importantly analysis).

This is an individual work Students can select challenging data sets (preferably from Kaggle/ any other
contest data set, so as to suit the objectives of the study). One reviews will be held, timed along with the
end semester exam.

1. Evaluation Part 1 (5 Marks)
	a) Data preprocessing; Handle Missing values: Dummy variables= correlation analysis: Data Scaling Transformation dimensionality reduction (at least 2 methods); strategies to avoid over fitting;
	b) Data Visualization and EDA(Plotly, Bokeh and Tableau to be employed to elicit intelligence with both static and dynamic features).given in Assignment Visualization
	c) Model 1 - Classification and Regression (two models); Confusion Matrix, Accuracy, F-Measure, 10 fold cross validation, Student T-Test and RoC Tests

2. Evaluation Part 2 (5 Marks)
	a) Model 2 - Clustering (Any two algorithms to be implemented and evaluated)
	b) Model 3 - Association Rule Mining

3. Evaluation Part 3 (5 Marks)
	a) Model 4 - Time series analysis (example: stock market prediction] Demand forecasting)

Students shall submit their study in Jupyter Notebook (To be uploaded in one-drive 2 days prior to Final Review). The work should have explanatory notes embedded.

Team - The above is what we have for BA Case study.
All CRs want to propose and request the following from Anjali and BA mam:

1) We are fine with selecting one model for each evaluation parts rather than two methods/model
2) Everyone is flexible enough to choose any domain for a dataset rather than limiting all models to a single domain.

The goal of the case study, we believe, should be to comprehend the notion of the model and its practical application rather than to limit the coding element to a certain domain.
Students should be given the choice of presenting their Time Series analysis in MS-Excel, Python, or Tableau?


Is everyone ok with the proposal?
Yes
No
If any suggestions, please provide to me by end of today.

